hi I'm Alex I'm an ex IELTS examiner and
one of the expert IELTS teachers here at
eating language comm here at litre
language our mission is to help you pass
your English language test and we know
that IELTS writing is a big hurdle so
today I want to show you how an examiner
marks your writing that is I'm going to
show you exactly how the marking
criteria work I know it looks like a
super complicated document but I'm only
going to show you the important parts so
how does it work first of all I should
mention this is the public version of
the writing task to ban descriptors
everything you need to know is on here
and you can find this via the link below
now there are four criteria here task
response coherence and cohesion lexical
resource and grammatical range and
accuracy and the band scores are on the
Left expert user is up the top band 9
and band zero is down the bottom for
people who didn't turn up or who wrote a
memorized essay
most people aiming around here band 7
and band 8 now the examiner actually
gives you four scores one for each of
the criterion and your total score is
worked out from them so how do you get
your score well let's say you get 7 7 7
7 from the examiner then congratulations
that of course is a band 7 essay however
if you miss one and get let's say band 6
in grammatical range and accuracy even
though you've got three 7s this will
come to band six point five for this one
you can counter this by scoring about
eight somewhere else so what does this
mean for you as a candidate how can you
be sure that you're not going to drop
below and 7 well of course we need to
know what's in the band 7 criteria but
you also need to look at Ben six and
then five and
even been three because that's where the
reasons for band six about six point
five exists let's start with criterion
one task response which is here on the
left if you look at the band seven
requirements you can see three dot
points and the first one says addresses
all parts of the task now if you have a
question like this nowadays people use
social media to keep up with the news
why do they do this is it a positive or
negative trend you'll see that there are
two questions why do they do this is it
a positive or negative trend you're more
likely to be down here if you answer
just one question addresses the task
only partially so that's a simple one
there are two questions answer both the
second question that we just saw asked
is it a positive or a negative
development now this brings us to the
second point presents a clear position
throughout the response very important
word there is threw out threw out the
response basically this means that you
are giving an opinion from top to bottom
in your essay now let's say you don't
want to give an opinion or your opinion
is not clear to the examiner this is
catastrophic we're down here at band
three does not express a clear position
so your work could be beautifully
written full of rich vocabulary and
ideas but if I get to the end if I don't
know what you think you're gonna score
band three so address all parts of the
task clear opinion throughout and then
presents extends supports main ideas
this is the body of your essay whenever
you give an idea or make a point you
need to present it extend it supportive
if you don't you'll be down here at six
presents relevant main ideas but
inadequately developed or unclear or
five limited ideas that are not
sufficiently developed or have
irrelevant detail this is where an
expert IELTS teacher can really help you
so make sure that you book your tutorial
if you're a subscriber and submit your
work for
so that we can help you criterion 2 is
coherence and cohesion and this is all
about paragraphing linking and flow
there are three points here logically
organizes information and idea clear
progression uses a range of cohesive
devices clear central topic within each
paragraph if you've done any IELTS prep
you would know all of this but you could
still be scoring six point five or six
why is that well let me show you here it
bends six the second dot point says uses
cohesive devices effectively but
cohesion within and or between sentences
may be faulty or mechanical faulty or
mechanical again these are very
important words let me show you what
they mean
faulty cohesion here's an example some
people like to get their news from
social media while there are some
benefits but this is not always a good
idea
faulty cohesion this is really it's a
grammatical problem but there's a
linking word here while linking word but
and they are used incorrectly so this is
classic band six faulty linking the
other one was mechanical mechanical
cohesion here's an example firstly blah
blah blah secondly blah blah blah
finally love a blah therefore blah blah
blah moreover blah blah blah it's
totally fine it's not wrong but it's
pretty boring and it's mechanical the
linkers are at the start of the sentence
and they're not very imaginative if
you've come to our live classes you'll
know that we have a few tricks to avoid
having this mechanical cohesion but you
probably recognize that you're guilty of
this in your own writing
it's very common so beware of faulty and
mechanical linking another big reason
why you might lose points is because of
referencing been success that you may
not always use referencing clearly or
appropriately a referencing is words
like it they there
this these using them correctly means
knowing your countable and uncountable
x' and editing carefully so do you know
when to use the word this and when to
use the word these if not you could be
using your references incorrectly and
the more serious issue is here in band 5
may be repetitive because of lack of
referencing and substitution let me show
you an example of this these days it is
quite difficult to avoid advertisements
some people believe that advertisements
make life better whereas other people
feel advertisements make life worse
despite the negative aspects of
advertisements I feel that life is
better with advertisements grammatically
this is fine however you can notice the
repetition this writer has used the word
advertisements five times in just three
sentences this is way too many this is a
classic band 5 repetitive because of
lack of referencing and substitution of
course you have to repeat vocabulary but
be careful with repeating the same word
more than once per sentence and
definitely not more than three times per
paragraph one final point on this
criterion is about paragraphing no band
6 says users paragraphing but not always
logically well what is a logical
paragraph you ask this this is logical
paragraphing the words here are just
nonsense so don't worry about them for
the moment I'm just talking about the
visual aspect you can clearly see here
the introduction to body paragraphs and
the conclusion now compare that to this
essay immediately this poor student can
say goodbye to IELTS 7 why is there one
sentence sitting all alone here and
what's this weird gap in the middle of
this paragraph
what's this huge block of text at the
end where is the conclusion this is
illogical paragraphing paper-based IELTS
same thing bye-bye then seven but the
good news is that is super easy to avoid
just learn the e to structure look at
our samples and it's super simple in
terms of the content it's a little more
difficult but again learn the e to
structure and apply it to your writing
criterion 3 is lexical resource this is
vocabulary there are two factors at play
here the first one is range band $0.07
uses a sufficient range uses less common
lexical items and the other point is
accuracy
so in band 7 you may produce occasional
errors in word choice spelling or word
formation let's look at accuracy from
bounds 7 to band 5 & 7 occasional errors
band 6 some errors and they do not
impede communication band 5 noticeable
errors that cause some difficulty for
the reader
so band 7 a few errors then 6 quite a
lot of errors but I understand
everything and 5 a lot of errors and in
some places I can't follow because of
those errors the final criterion has
much the same approach grammatical range
and accuracy again here an examiner is
looking for a variety of complex
structures in them 7 wide range in band
8 and 9 but here is the kicker in band 7
second dot point frequent error free
sentences if you've ever submitted your
work for assessment or for feedback have
a look at how many sentences you have
which are absolutely perfect where the
teacher hasn't made any comment or any
changes frequent error free sentence is
actually fairly rare you need to be
perfect in a lot of sentences you need
to edit really really rigorously so how
many errors can you make well band 8
says the majority of sentences are error
free so for band 7 you need to be pretty
close to 50% let's say now remember the
VOC
have Criterion grammar works in much the
same way found seven frequent error free
sentences band six makes some errors and
they rarely reduce communication and
five frequent errors that cause some
difficulty let's see this in action here
look at this first paragraph in
conclusion to some extent advertising
does have a role to play in the economy
and can provide useful information to
the buying public there's a spelling
error in there but otherwise it's pretty
much perfect this one in conclusion to
some extend advertisement does has a
role to play in the economy and can
providing useful information to the
buying public I can see lots of errors
here but I can still understand what the
writer is trying to say in conclusion to
some extend advertisements does have a
roles for play economics and can to
pervade us full information to the busy
poopley here I'm having trouble
understanding so this is a good example
of a band 7 fan 6 and band 5 level of
writing so let me simplify everything
sum it all up to score band 7 up in task
response you need to answer all parts of
the question extend support your ideas
give a clear position throughout
coherence cohesion use referencing use
substitution beware of faulty and
mechanical linking and paragraph
logically for vocab and grammar just two
points wide range minimize your errors
it all sounds very simple I know but it
can be difficult to analyze your own
writing critically so if you get in
touch with us here at e2 language you
can book a tutorial with me or one of
the other IELTS teachers and we'll go
through your writing with you step by
step sentence by sentence and point out
to you where you might be making errors
and more importantly show you how to fix
them up so that on test day you are
scoring down seven such
now that II to language calm 100% online
you can submit speaking and writing for
feedback book your tutorials come along
to our daily live group classes access
our course and heaps more catch you soon
[Music]